Docs 6768 improve cors default policy pa (#177)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/cors-policy.adoc

endif::[]
:keywords: cors, api gateway, gateway, policy

[%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
|===
>s| Policy name | cross-origin resource sharing (CORS)

> >s| Summary      | Enables access to resources residing in external domains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>s| Summary      | Enables access to resources residing in external domains
```
Not a sentence, but if there are others that ARE, then all get periods

Author: Done! Thanks!

>s| Category | Compliance
>s| Available from Mule version | v4.1.1
.4+>.^s| Returned Status Codes |

> CORS is a mechanism by which a Web application can access resources that are defined in another domain.  Using CORS, applications invoking JavaScript XMLHttpRequest (XHR) calls from a Web page can interact with resources from non-origin domains.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY lowercase "web." Same with "internet." They have become common nouns.
```suggestion
CORS is a mechanism by which a web application can access resources that are defined in another domain.  Using CORS, applications invoking JavaScript XMLHttpRequest (XHR) calls from a web page can interact with resources from non-origin domains.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> Typically, Web browsers implement this standard for allowing cross origin requests. Your API is categorized as a public resource by default when you apply this policy. If you want to share only specific resources of your API, you can configure the policy as a restricted resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typically, web browsers implement this standard for allowing cross-origin requests. Your API is categorized as a public resource by default when you apply this policy. If you want to share only specific resources of your API, you can configure the policy as a restricted resource.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> The CORS policy complies with https://www.w3.org/TR/cors/[CORS W3C recommendation] from 16 January 2014.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CORS policy complies with the https://www.w3.org/TR/cors/[CORS W3C recommendation] from 16 January 2014.
```
Are we saying that the compliance started 16 Jan or that the recommendation is dated 16 Jan? Reword to clarify.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> You must specify the default group before specifying another one. The Default group on this case means that it is the first group that you must configure for CORS. Therefore, when a configuration error occurs, the policy resets to the default configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must specify the default group before specifying another. The default group, in this case, is the first group that you must configure for CORS. When a configuration error occurs, the policy resets to the default configuration.
```
Is the final sentence intended to emphasize that the config resets to the default config or to the first group configured? I removed "Therefore," because that would imply the latter; please reinsert it and reword to specify first group rather than default, if that is the case.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> By design, you cannot change the order of execution for the CORS policy. If a protected request using OPTIONS is sent to an application that has the CORS policy applied, the request will not reach the protected resource. According to the https://www.w3.org/TR/cors/#resource-preflight-requests[CORS specification], all OPTIONS requests are considered PreFlight. 

Reviewer: Is it important to note "By design"? When using this phrase, the text typically tells WHY it was designed that way.

Reviewer: Will the audience understand why a preflight option is not accepted by a protected resource?

Reviewer: PreFlight > preflight 
I looked it up: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Preflight_request

Author: Yes, by design is required. The rest is fine as is too.

image::cors-policy.png[]

== How This Policy Works

> *Eva we don't have much here.*

Reviewer: This topic appears above.
Also, this text would end up in the publication, so be careful.

Author: Done! Removed!

== Configuring CORS for non-API Gateway Mule Environments

> If your Mule runtime engine (Mule) is not started with API gateway capabilities and you need to implement the CORS functionality, you can use the CORS Interceptor, which is an element in the HTTP Listener configuration and is available in Mule 4.0.

Reviewer: It doesn't bother me, but this is a long sentence. You might break it in two.

Reviewer: Do we want to say "is not started" or "is not configured"? Or...:
```suggestion
If your Mule runtime engine (Mule) is not enabled for API gateway and you need to implement the CORS functionality, you can use the CORS Interceptor. The CORS Interceptor is an element in the HTTP Listener configuration made available in Mule 4.0.
```
Because the main limitation to using Interceptor is you Mule version, you might reword to make that more prominent.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> You can leverage the CORS policy capabilities as a public resource or as a selected group of origins, based on which the CORS configuration structure changes. 

Reviewer: "based on which" made me read this sentence more than once, because I first thought that it referred to criteria for using it as a public resource vs. group of origins.
Are we really saying that if you leverage the policy as a selected group of origin, that this one option of the two changes the CORS config?

Author: Changed to: The CORS configuration differs based on whether you leverage the CORS policy capabilities as a public resource or as a selected group of origins:

> Selected Group of Origins Structure Example:

Reviewer: This should be either a subtopic, a list item, or a plain text introduction (sentence or fragment).
We want to avoid informal headings; also, as a heading, this would not end with a colon.

Author: Done! Thanks!

endif::[]
:keywords: cors, api gateway, gateway, policy

[%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
|===
>s| Policy name | cross-origin resource sharing (CORS)
>s| Summary      | Enables access to resources residing in external domains.
>s| Category | Compliance
>s| Available from Mule version | v4.1.1

> .4+>.^s| Returned Status Codes |

Reviewer 2: The status code that returns are missing right? 

@mtqp could you fill it in? This is one of the confusing aspects about CORS.

Author: Noted, will work with Mariano!

CORS is a mechanism by which a Web application can access resources that are defined in another domain.  Using CORS, applications invoking JavaScript XMLHttpRequest (XHR) calls from a Web page can interact with resources from non-origin domains.

> Typically, Web browsers implement this standard for allowing cross origin requests. When you apply this policy to your API, it is considered a public resource by default. You can  check will enter the extended CORS configuration. If require that your API be shared with only specific resources, you can configure the policy accordingly.

Reviewer 2: This sentence seems incomplete: "You can  check will enter the extended CORS configuration"

Author: Done! Thanks!

> The CORS policy complies with CORS W3C recommendation from 16 January 2014.

Reviewer 2: Can we add a link to it?

Author: Will do!

> *<Eva: I saw that you can specify a default group in the UI. What is it? what does it do and what other groups can one create?>*

Reviewer 2: @priyaayyar , please review this policy with @mtqp , we have been talking about this one and he can provide all the context.

Author: Will do!

endif::[]
:keywords: cors, api gateway, gateway, policy

[%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
|===
>s| Policy name | cross-origin resource sharing (CORS)
>s| Summary      | Enables access to resources residing in external domains.
>s| Category | Compliance
>s| Available from Mule version | v4.1.1
.4+>.^s| Returned Status Codes |

CORS is a mechanism by which a Web application can access resources that are defined in another domain.  Using CORS, applications invoking JavaScript XMLHttpRequest (XHR) calls from a Web page can interact with resources from non-origin domains.

> Typically, Web browsers implement this standard for allowing cross origin requests. Your API is categorized as a public resource by default when you apply this policy. If you want to share your API with only specific resources, you can configure the policy as a restricted resource.

Reviewer 3: "If you want to share your API with only specific resource" -> "If you want to share specific resources of your API "

Author: Done!

The CORS policy complies with CORS W3C recommendation from 16 January 2014.

> *can we add a link to it?*

Reviewer 3: The reference document would be: https://www.w3.org/TR/cors/

Author: Done! Thanks!

*<Eva: I saw that you can specify a default group in the UI. What is it? what does it do and what other groups can one create?>*

> You must specify the default group before specifying another one. The Default group is not a fallback in the normal sense of a default. In this case, it is only the first group you configure for CORS. -- Eva, not sure about this sentence. What does the fallbacl mean here. Please clarify.

Reviewer 3: In this context, fallback means that when there is an error (config error for example), instead of failing a general, it will use a default [and supposedly safe and proven] configuration.

Author: Done! Thanks!

You cannot order the CORS policy. This isn't a technical limitation, but rather by design. No OPTIONS request can reach the backend if CORS is configured, as this request is treated as a Preflight according to the CORS-compliant RFC.

> *Eva again the previous sentence does not make sense*

Reviewer 3: All policies has an order in which they are applied. Order matters because an incoming request will got through the policies in order before reaching the protected resource. 
HTTP protocol has many "verbs". Example: POST, GET, PUT, OPTIONS. If you have a protected request using OPTIONS, and the CORS policy is applied, then that particular request will never reach the backend (ie protected resource), since the policy itself will intercept *always* that request. When talking about CORS and OPTIONS, we are talking about PreFlight, which is a term used by the CORS specification (https://www.w3.org/TR/cors/#resource-preflight-requests) to identify which CORS operations are supported before performing then (operations may be costly in terms of allocated processing power).

Author: Done! Thanks!

image::cors-policy.png[]

> *Eva--do we have any prerequisites or scope and considerations for this policy?*

Reviewer 3: What do you mean by pre requisites or scope? If you mean some third party dependency as in the OAuth policies, then no. You can always apply this policy to a tracked API.

Author: Ok! Thanks!

== How This Policy Works

> *Eva we don't have much here.*

Reviewer 3: And we shouldn't I believe. This document is about the CORS policy, and the CORS interceptor, which the policy uses to do its magic, can be used in a standalone way, but that is out of the scope of this doc.

Author: Ok! Thanks!

== Configuring CORS for non-API Gateway Mule Environments

> If your Mule runtime engine (Mule) is not started with API gateway capabilities and you need to implement the CORS functionality, you can use the CORS Interceptor, which is an element in the HTTP Listener configuration and is available in Mule 4.0.

Reviewer 3: API Gateway

Author: No gateway is correct. Done! Thanks!

> If your Mule runtime engine (Mule) is not started with API gateway capabilities and you need to implement the CORS functionality, you can use the CORS Interceptor, which is an element in the HTTP Listener configuration and is available in Mule 4.0.

Reviewer 3: Not sure: Should we replace "Mule runtime engine (Mule)" by "runtime"?

Author: No again product naming is an editor thing. it is fine as is. Done! Thanks!

> When you modify the configuration, you must redeploy your application. The CORS configuration structure differs based on whether it is configured as a public resource or for a selected group of origins. 

Reviewer 3: Incorrect semantic change. The original content stated that there are two main ways to leverage the policy capabilities: Public resource or Selected group of origins. No application redeploy involved. If you edit the policy configuration then, as with all other policies, policy is updated runtime side.

Author: Done! Thanks!

</http:listener-interceptors>
----

> Public Resource Example:

Reviewer: DITTO previous comment.

Author: Done! Thanks!

</http:listener-interceptors>
----

== Disabling Same-Origin Restrictions in Your Browser

> If you cannot implement CORS for your API, you can disable the same-origin restrictions in your browser to call an inaccessible API. Each browser handles these restrictions in a unique way. You can research the tips, tricks, and plugins for your browser from the internet.

Reviewer: Consider rewording to clarify that what causes the problem is that CORS and API do not have the same origin. Is that the problem? Maybe something like "You might need to disable the same-origin restrictions in your browser if you cannot access an API that is not of the same origin as CORS."
UPDATED BELOW

Reviewer: However, if you reword (or even if you do not), the rest of the paragraph seems to focus on how browsers implement such restrictions, and not upon disabling them.
UPDATED BELOW

Reviewer: I also think it might be a little too casual to mention tips, tricks, and plugins for the browser on the internet. Maybe something more like "See documentation for your browser to determine how to disable the restriction"?
UPDATED BELOW

Reviewer: UPDATE
AH! Now that I have read further, I understand that this is an intro to TASKS that disable the restriction in various browsers. So...how about this:
```suggestion
If you cannot implement CORS for your API, you might need to disable the same-origin restrictions in your browser to call an inaccessible API. How you modify your browser to do this depends on whether you use Chrome or Internet Explorer. However, before you modify your browser settings, be sure to consider the potential security implications and restrict changes to your own web pages to avoid external threats.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> Before you modify your browser settings, make sure you understand and assess its potential security implications. You must use these browser settings only for testing in your own web pages. Otherwise, the browser can become vulnerable to malicious scripts and other potential threats.

Reviewer: Suggest omitting in favor of shorter mention above. What I really wanted to do was find a way to not get too far from the text that introduces the TASKS of disabling the restriction....

Author: Done! Thanks!

> === Disabling Same-Origin Restrictions on Google Chrome for Mac OS X

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Disable Same-Origin Restrictions on Google Chrome for Mac OS X
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

To disable same-origin restrictions on Google Chrome for Mac OS X:

> * Open a new Terminal window and paste the following line: `open -a Google\ Chrome --args --disable-web-security`.

Reviewer: Paste from where? And don't they need to copy first?
Steps:
```suggestion
. Open a new Terminal window and paste within it the following line: 
`open -a Google\ Chrome --args --disable-web-security`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * Press *Enter*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Press *Enter*.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> === Disabling Same-Origin Restrictions on Google Chrome for Windows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Disable Same-Origin Restrictions on Google Chrome for Windows
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

To disable same-origin restrictions on Google Chrome for Windows:

> * Open a command prompt window.

Reviewer: Is this the same as Terminal above, or are they named differently in Mac and Windows?

Reviewer: Steps below:

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * Navigate to the location of the Chrome executable (Chrome.exe) file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Navigate to the location of the Chrome executable file (Chrome.exe).
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * Paste the following line: `chrome.exe --disable-web-security`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Copy from Chrome.exe the following line and paste it in the command prompt window: 
`chrome.exe --disable-web-security`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * Press *Enter*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Press *Enter*.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> === Disabling Same-Origin Restrictions on Internet Explorer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Disable Same-Origin Restrictions on Internet Explorer
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

To disable same-origin restrictions on Internet Explorer:

> * Navigate to *Internet Properties* > *Security* > *Custom Level in Security Level for this Zone* > *Miscellaneous* .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Navigate to *Internet Properties* > *Security* > *Custom Level in Security Level for this Zone* > *Miscellaneous*.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * Enable the Enable Access to Data Sources Across Domains option to access data sources across domains.

Reviewer: "Enable" how: select? click? 
```suggestion
. Enable the *Enable Access to Data Sources Across Domains* option to access data sources across domains.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

== Configuring Policy Parameters

When you apply the policy to your API from the UI, the following parameters are displayed:

%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a"]
|===

> | Element | Description | Required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Element | Description | Required?
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Public resource | Whether the CORS configuration is to be applied as a public resource (default). | Yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Public resource | Whether the CORS configuration is to be applied as a public resource (default) | Yes
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Default Group | Whether the CORS configuration is to be applied only to specific resources. This option is displayed when you uncheck the Public resource box. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Default group | Whether the CORS configuration is to be applied only to specific resources (requires unselecting *Public resource*) | No
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

* Open a new Terminal window and paste the following line: `open -a Google\ Chrome --args --disable-web-security`.
* Press *Enter*.

=== Disabling Same-Origin Restrictions on Google Chrome for Windows

To disable same-origin restrictions on Google Chrome for Windows:

* Open a command prompt window.
* Navigate to the location of the Chrome executable (Chrome.exe) file.
* Paste the following line: `chrome.exe --disable-web-security`.
* Press *Enter*.

=== Disabling Same-Origin Restrictions on Internet Explorer

To disable same-origin restrictions on Internet Explorer:

* Navigate to *Internet Properties* > *Security* > *Custom Level in Security Level for this Zone* > *Miscellaneous* .
* Enable the Enable Access to Data Sources Across Domains option to access data sources across domains.

== Configuring Policy Parameters

When you apply the policy to your API from the UI, the following parameters are displayed:

%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a"]
|===
| Element | Description | Required
| Public resource | Whether the CORS configuration is to be applied as a public resource (default). | Yes
| Default Group | This option is displayed when you uncheck the Public resource box. | No

> | Support credentials | Eva what are these?| No

Reviewer 3: Credentials, in the context of CORS spec, are cookies, authorization headers or TLS client certificates.

Author: Done! Thanks!

|===

== Configuring API Specifications

> *Eva-- anything to add here?*

Reviewer 3: What would you suggest?

Author: No idea. :-( Removed it!
